Still sketches. Hey, everybody.
hello.
Welcome to, Python bites live recording.
And, thanks for everyone for sticking around for a couple extra minutes.
We had some technical difficulty, but we're all set to go now.
Yay. So ready guys.
Okay.
Hello and welcome to Python bites where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 311 recorded November 22nd, 2022.
And I am Brian Okken.
- I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Murilo Cunha.
- So welcome Murilo, Mur, Mur, sorry.
- Murilo is fine.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
So tell us a little bit about yourself
before we jump into the topics.
- All right.
So TLDR is a machine learning engineer
at a data and AI consultancy company called Data Roots.
I'm from Brazil, but I actually live in Belgium.
And I guess that's it.
Thanks for having me.
- Thanks for showing up.
- It's great to have you here.
- Well, Michael, why don't you kick us off
with the first topic?
- All right, let's kick it off.
I've got some fun stuff.
Let's see what Marilo thinks about this.
This is, it's a little bit mathy,
what I got going on here.
That is not the right screen.
How about that screen?
So this comes in from one of the big friends of the show,
Brian Skin, and he sent me a tweet and it just says,
what @pythonbytes?
And it's a quote tweet from somebody here saying,
holy latexify is the sexiest thing I've ever seen.
And look at this, so when I studied a ton of math
And the symbols of mathematics are really important
and they communicate stuff like really, really quickly.
You can scan over and you see the symbol
for the real numbers, or you can see the symbol
for subset or infinite sum, and you're like,
I know what that means.
When you translate that into Python or into computer code,
it usually becomes something kind of gnarly looking, right?
So the example here on this tweet
has a function called solve,
and it's solving the quadratic equation,
I guess just for one variation of the root,
not the plus minus, but that's fine.
It just says like negative B plus math dot square root
B star star two, it's like symbol soup, right?
- Yeah.
- So this latexify thing, latecify,
latec is the language of expressing those symbols
the way mathematicians would have written them
in the 16th century or whatever,
like the fancy flowing sort of, you know,
some symbols and integral symbols and whatnot.
And so what this does is you just put a decorator
onto that Python function,
you say let techify dot with latex,
let tech, when you show that function in a notebook,
it shows the math, the formal mathematics of it.
- Wow.
- Like, like there's one that was doing,
I said the quadratic equation, another one that says,
if X is zero, return one else return math,
sine of X divided by X.
And then the symbols is like this sort of like
branching equation, you know, like what you would write that
in the LaTeX conceptually.
What do you think? - Oh, wow.
- Is that insane?
- This is great.
But it just changes the rep of the function, I guess, right?
Like if you call the function, it's all fine.
- Yeah, exactly.
It doesn't change the function at all.
It changes the repper or the stir.
So if you do this outside of a notebook,
what it prints out, let me see if I can somehow
communicate this back.
So if you print it out, what it, it returns,
oh, do I have it here?
No, yes, there.
No, that's not it.
Sorry, I don't have it.
What it prints out is the LaTeX escape codes.
So it'll say like, backslash frack of, you know,
Like it's a weird, I don't know how to write LaTeX.
I did a little bit when I was studying math
and then I said, that's something I never need to remember
and, you know, shot it out of my brain.
- Never again.
- Yeah, like why do I need to know this?
I don't need to know this.
But yeah, so the repper is just the LaTeX escape codes
and then the notebooks see that
and then they render it as LaTeX.
- That's pretty cool.
And then, but one of the nice things about this then
is you can, you might have like the math
that you're trying to convert to code
and then you can like check your answer.
You can just see, did I get it right in code?
So, this is pretty cool.
- That's really interesting.
Yeah, 'cause you round trip it, right?
- Yeah, I'm assuming people are doing this
on their own code.
So they're, you know, I guess you could--
- The question about the inverse, right?
It's like, hey, if I have the math symbols,
could I turn this into a Python function?
I mean, I don't see why I can't go both ways.
- Sure.
- True, but I still think it would be easier
to write the Python function than the latex code
or rendering it.
- Yeah, that's true.
I think it's a pretty niche use case.
Well, you know, I'm sure.
- Well, I'm sure someone's gonna find a cool use case
for it too, right?
- Yeah.
This is pretty interesting.
We've got a couple of live comments.
Hey Madison, out in the audience.
Madison's been on the show before.
I'm blown away by how libraries like this
are able to make math approachable.
I wonder how this could be used
with auto-generated documentation.
Very cool, I agree.
And Henry also says, I'm guessing it's working
on the byte code like Numba,
but compiling it into a human language.
Yeah, compiling it into the LaTeX escape codes.
- Which is not human.
- Basically.
- Yeah.
- Which is the opposite of unreadable,
but it is text, right?
- Yeah.
Related to this, just--
Oh, yeah.
Henry tells me how it's done.
OK.
It's using inspect get source and parsing the AST.
Yeah, perfect.
Another thing that's amazing that people
check out, like the SymPy stuff, it
does some really, really interesting things.
Like if you go, say, to Calculus, you take a limit
here, it'll do similar outputs as well.
You could put in this, and it'll actually express it as symbolic math, and it won't lose precision
because it solves it symbolically. You can say, like, you know, factor this equation.
So that's kind of related. But this just says, given any arbitrary Python function not written
in the symbolic form, just turn it into LaTeX, which is pretty amazing. So anyway, thank you,
- Thank you, Brian Skin for pointing that out.
That is pretty neat.
One final comment.
I could not get it to install on my Apple Silicon Mac.
Maybe that detail matters,
but I couldn't get it to pip install.
Out of PyPI, I had to pip install the git plus
the GitHub URL, and then it would install.
I don't know why, but if people wanna play with it,
that might be necessary.
- Okay, cool.
- Yeah, over to you, Brian.
- All right, well, while we're talking about math,
I'm often working in the measurement world
and where we care about like prefixes a lot.
And you know, a lot of people do
with big numbers or small numbers.
And this was actually suggested to us by Avram.
And I think he's either works on this or it's his project.
It's a project called Prefixed.
And what this does is it's just, it's a class,
it provides a class called float, capital F,
that is a, derives from the built-in float,
and it supports scientific decimal,
or scientific and, yeah, IEC,
which I'm not familiar with, prefixes.
So things like scientific, like K and S
and things like that.
If you go look at all the metric prefixes,
you've got like, there's some new ones,
but N, K, mega, giga, things like that.
And it just, so it adds these onto when you print them.
So it acts just like a normal float.
Most of the time you can use it in math equations
and everything.
The interesting thing is if it is used in math equation,
the result will be one of these prefix float types.
But then the nice thing about it
is when you convert it to a string,
it includes the little prefix thing
or the suffix or whatever,
the little micro or K or M or something like that.
So I think this is actually super helpful.
I'm gonna use this right away
because I use a lot of like big and small numbers
and reporting out just the huge thing,
or just the float is sometimes horrible to compare with.
So this is pretty cool.
- It's very clever.
I love how simple the idea is.
So you can just F string one of these floats
and say colon 0.2 H, and that'll convert it to its,
and the H tells it to be either, you know,
kila or micro or mega or, you know,
whatever suffix is needed.
That's cool.
And then there's the byte example where they said,
well, I'm gonna use the capital B for bytes,
but that's after the formatting of the number.
And then the K comes in from the float thing.
So that's pretty cool.
One of the other things that he passed along
is there's some new prefixes.
So this is apparently new,
new scientific prefixes over the last,
for the first ones, new ones for the last 30 years,
apparently.
So we have 10 to the 21st, which is Zeta,
and 10 to the 24th, which is Yotta,
and then negative is Zepto and Yocto.
So these are fun.
- Maybe, why now?
Why did they decided to like,
need to, they have more money now
and they need to come up with new prefixes or?
- Exactly.
I'm not sure why we need new prefixes.
>> Our microscopes can now see smaller things.
We don't have words for this, that things are this small.
>> But national debt, maybe.
>> Yeah, very possible.
>> But also, Avram notes that Prefixed
does handle these new ones.
So cool.
Good job.
>> One thing, Python 2, you can put the underscore, right?
if you put underscore in the thousands, that also,
that's something that makes it easier, I think,
to read the numbers too.
That's what I was using to know.
- Yeah, like the digit grouping, yeah.
- Yeah. - Do you do that a lot?
- Not a lot, but like, whenever I can, I do.
I think it makes it easier to distinguish
how big the number is, I guess.
- I always forget to.
I just, I know it's there, but I never use it.
- I think usually it's like when I'm counting the zeros
with my finger on the screen, I'm like,
No, no, maybe I'll just put a underscore there.
It makes everyone's life easier.
Yeah.
I've really started doing that a lot the last couple years.
But before then, I didn't.
Cool.
Well, what is next?
Merlo, what you got for us?
I think that's me.
Yeah.
DBT, have you ever--
First, you've got to accept some cookies.
Hold on.
Oh, my bad.
My bad.
Just kidding.
I'm just teasing.
I love cookies.
I'm trying to-- these cookie things drive me crazy, man.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I think it's like crazy how like now that it's popping up everywhere and then you see
like the data gathering all the time and this and this.
But maybe DBT.
Have you ever heard of DBT?
Is this something because in the data world in my field, it's super popular, but I don't
know if it's a bubble as well.
I've never heard of it.
Michael never heard of it.
I think I've heard of it, but I couldn't tell you what it does.
So I'm basically in the same spot.
Tell us about it.
No, it's a really cool tool.
It's open source as well.
They have their cloud option, I guess, right?
So you can pay and they host it.
Maybe a disclaimer as well that I never,
I always see it and I always want to use it,
but I haven't found the use case.
So I don't have first-hand experience here,
but basically the way I would describe
is that they add best practices around SQL projects.
So why am I mentioning this on Python Bytes?
It's built with Python.
Yay.
And the other thing too is that,
they actually mix Jinja with SQL stuff, right?
So you can actually do for loops,
you can do stuff like that,
so you don't have to repeat every time
and just change the variable.
They also have these like reference macros and stuff,
so you can actually say, okay,
this comes from that table that is on that file,
and this comes from this.
So you can actually chain a lot of these dependencies, right?
Like there's a lot of projects
that you have these ETL stuff, right?
So you just have to basically transform each step.
And with dbt, they actually keep track
of what depends on what,
and you can say, oh, I want the freshest data here,
and you execute everything that needs to be executed there.
- Wow.
- Yeah, so it's super cool.
They actually support a lot of like data platforms here.
Right, so you see like BigQuery, Databricks, Snowflake,
all these things as well.
Another thing that they also, more things they do,
they even have some data validation stuff,
which in my field, it's a big thing too.
You know, like maybe have an ID column
that needs to be unique, cannot be null,
and you wanna make sure that that always happens.
And if it doesn't happen, you wanna be flagged, right?
So that's super cool.
What else?
You also have some built-in documentation.
Once you have the dependencies,
you can say, "Show me the DAG,
show me where the data comes from and what depends on what."
That's also super cool.
Recently, actually, they actually started supporting.
Like an SQL file corresponds to a model.
Cookies again. They have SQL models,
so that's the one, but they also
started supporting Python models.
So this is very tight to data.
So now you can actually mix and match, right?
You can say this step, this transformation is in SQL,
but this one is actually in Python, right?
So the way they don't run anything on the machine,
they actually send it to the cloud.
So Snowflake has Snowpark,
which is Python on its own Snowflake.
BigQuery has Spark and Databricks as well, right?
So basically you can mix and match.
This transformation is here, this transformation is there,
but everything is like in a nice, put in one place.
And because it's on Git as well, you can have CI/CD.
I think also you mentioned, I think it was you, Brian,
that mentioned SQL Fluff, and SQL Fluff actually
came from a DBT project as well.
So, and it's all in Python, so super cool.
- That's really neat.
So what do the Python models look like?
Are they straight Python classes, or are they Pydantic?
- I have, I watched, maybe I'm a bit lazy,
'cause I just watched a video, and they were showing here
how it works, 'cause they're also doing a comparison, right?
Maybe this is, no, this doesn't work, does it?
- Yeah, it works. - This works?
- Yeah, it was wrong.
- Okay, but the quality is horrible.
But in a nutshell, you have this basically.
- Yeah, I'll put this in the top.
- You define a function. - Okay, got it.
- Yeah, you define a function that has a DBT and a session,
and then you create a reference,
so reference is basically a table, right?
And you can say, and then from that point on,
you can say two pandas, and then you can just basically
use the pandas API to transform that, right?
So there's still some caveats, right?
'Cause panda is not super performant,
depending on how much data you have and whatnot.
So sometimes you probably still want to stick to
the SQL stuff, but then it opens a lot of possibilities
there too.
So even stuff like deploying machine learning models
on the SQL infrastructure and everything.
Yeah, so it's kind of the same old, same old story.
Even if you're working with an ORM, sometimes you don't want
to bring all that data back to make some minor change.
You would just do a sort of an update statement
instead of pull back 10,000 models,
change something and call save 10,000 times.
It's probably that kind of trade off,
but it's really cool that you can bring it back
into Python this way.
What are you using it for?
What are you interested in using it for?
- Well, I think we have a lot of these ETL pipeline stuff.
A lot of these, we have some data here,
and then we want to basically clean it up,
make sure it's all uniform, and put in a dashboard,
calculate some KPIs and whatnot,
so business people can see,
better or making more money or not, kind of.
And like a lot of the times it's just SQL, right?
It's also more accessible for a lot of people.
So we stick to SQL.
But there are also limitations, right?
But before what I've seen is people just kind of go in the UI and just execute stuff ad
hoc, right?
So no versioning, nothing.
And I think this kind of puts everything in one place.
You can even add CI/CD because the CLI tool and everything and just kind of make sure
that everything goes to that versioned method, let's say.
I mean, and again, yeah, if you need something more fancy,
right, then you can throw some Python stuff in there.
But usually we try to avoid it, to be honest.
- I can imagine.
Let's see here.
Hold on.
The models, the way you express the code,
it's really nice looking for a SQL,
which is surprising, right?
This code you write, like with customers as select
these fields from this table.
- Yeah, and they also have the different macros
and people can write different macros,
so the describe function in Pandas,
someone can just have written that and you can import that
and it's really nice to share all these things as well.
So, super cool.
Really, really eager to give it a try, to be honest.
I've been just trying to scratch that.
- When's the next project that we get to use this on?
- Indeed, indeed, indeed.
- Yeah, all right.
Brian, anything you want to add before we jump over
to talking about our sponsor real quick?
- Yeah, no, let's talk about our sponsor.
- All right.
- So today's episode of Python Bytes
is brought to you by Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
So Microsoft for Startups set out to understand
what startups need to be successful
and created a digital platform
to help you overcome those challenges.
And they came up with Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
The Founders Hub provides all founders at any stage
with free resources to help solve startup challenges.
The platform provides access to expert guidance,
skilled resources, mentorship, and networking connections,
technology benefits, and so much more.
Founders Hub is truly open to all.
You don't need to be investor backed, but you can be.
Speed up development with free access to GitHub
and the Microsoft Cloud.
You can unlock credits over time,
and there's also discounts and benefits
from innovative companies partnering with Founders Hub,
such as OpenAI.
You'll have access to their mentorship network,
which includes hundreds of mentors
across a range of disciplines.
Need advice on marketing, fundraising, idea validation?
There's tons of topics, including management and coaching.
You'll be able to book one-on-one meetings
with the mentors, many of whom
are former founders themselves.
It's no longer about who you know.
Get critical support you need
from Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub
and make your ideas a reality today.
Join the program by visiting pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022.
That link is also in your show notes.
- Yep, thanks Microsoft for keeping us going strong.
All right, what have I got next?
This one is a chain of really cool things.
So Roman Wright of Beanie fame and other things
tweeted about this project
that Pablo Galindo Salgado has been working on.
So Pablo was the release manager for Python 3.11.
It was part of the live stream of release,
and that was all fun.
But he also, I believe, works at Bloomberg,
where they work on memory.
And I think we spoke about memory quite a while back,
Brian, it's a memory profiling tool.
- Maybe.
- Merlo, do you use profilers
and that kind of stuff in your world?
- Not, I haven't used much,
haven't had the need to be honest, not yet.
I feel like so far, there's no, try to keep it simple.
- So a lot of times profilers are about performance,
like how fast did this code run?
And if it's slower, should I look at this loop
or that loop or, you know, where do you spend your time
making it faster?
'Cause it's really surprising when you look at code,
you're like, this part looks complicated,
so that must be the slow part.
Like, no, that doesn't matter.
Nothing you do to that will make any difference.
You gotta look over here, right?
That kind of stuff.
But Memray, as the name would suggest,
is more about memory profiling and talking about
how many of these different things have you allocated
and those kinds of things.
What is coming?
Well, first, let me pull up,
we have a pytest plugin, which is super cool.
So with the pytest plugin, you can do two things now.
you can say pytest --memory tests,
and it'll tell you things like,
you can actually set limits on how much memory
can be allocated for a certain operation,
and if it exceeds that, it'll say,
"Oh my gosh, there's something wrong.
"This thing is way overusing the memory we expected,
"so that's an error."
But it also gives you a cool emoji-filled summary, I guess.
Like total memory allocated, the number of allocations,
a histogram of allocation sizes.
So like Python memory has like size classes
when we've talked about it's block arena.
One other term I'm forgetting
that it uses to organize data structures.
And then you can actually get it overall
then for individual tests.
And so it'll tell you like the different things
that were allocated and anyway, it's pretty insane.
So you can get that report, and then you can also--
where's the other one?
I think it's-- where was it?
There's a place where you put a decorator,
and you just say, on this test, if it
exceeds this amount of allocation,
that should fail the unit test.
It's just a pytest.mark.memory limit or something.
I don't think it's a limit or memory limit.
I can't remember exactly what it's called.
You can say, if this test exceeds one memory,
one megabyte of memory allocation,
then that's a failed test,
which is pretty cool, right, Brian?
- That's really great.
So they got a, yeah, they have a limit memory decorator
and a check leaks decorator.
- That's the one.
So the check leaks is the new thing.
And so what you can do now is you can say
pytest.mark.checkleaks as a decorator on your test.
And if there's a memory leak in the code
that runs during that, it will let you know.
- Wow.
- I don't know if anyone else has tried
to track down memory leaks.
I would rather track down like a multi-threaded
race condition than a memory leak.
I don't want anything to do with memory leaks.
This is no fun.
And so if I can do it with a decorator, let's do it.
- Well, and also decorating your tests,
so you're not having to modify your code at all to do this.
That mean the code under test,
you're modifying your test code.
If at all, or it looks like it gives you some benefits,
even with no modifications.
It's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- Maybe, pardon my ignorance here,
but when would I worry about memory leaks in Python?
- I think, so imagine you're writing,
imagine you're writing pandas, right?
And you've written a bunch of C code
that's getting imported,
and you know there's a memory leak in there somewhere.
And it's just like, okay, well,
I don't really know how to--
- But then it's more like the C part is the--
- You can also have memory leaks in the sense
that you expected there to be no more things allocated
after the function was called,
but you could have signed it to a global variable
or you could have stored it,
held onto a reference in some way
that you weren't expecting.
So it's not a leak in the super traditional sense,
but it could build up if you're doing something wrong
Python, but certainly outside of that. So I think this is pretty cool.
Really, any long running service is going to have, you're going to be concerned
about it. There's a lot of Python applications that are short running, and
it just cleans up after itself when it's done. So there's just cases long
running services, also things like that maybe you care about things that are
using large amounts of data and, and need all of the data that they can get a
a hold of without wasting any, that's important as well.
Makes sense.
I'm also wondering--
Yeah, if you're right at the limit.
No, sorry.
Go ahead.
Yeah, if you're right at the limit of,
I'm using 15 and 1/2 gigs, and I don't have more than that,
so I need that.
Or I just checked, the TalkByThon training site
has been running for seven days and one hour.
If it had a memory leak, even if it's 100 kilobyte here
and there, it could turn out to be a big hassle.
-Cool.
I'm wondering if you could use this for edge device stuff,
if you want to limit the memory, because we
know the edge device won't have that much.
-That's actually a really good point,
because if you're on one of these CircuitPython little
boards, they've got 256K of RAM.
And that's very different than 16 gigs, isn't it?
- Right, yeah, so you could test your application
on a larger computer and limit how much memory you give it.
So it's kind of interesting.
- Right, yeah, I think you would wanna do that
with the limit rather than the check leaks, but still.
- Yeah, but it's the same, yeah.
Cool.
- Yeah, awesome.
All right, let's see a couple comments from the audience.
Gareth out there, hey Gareth.
Says, "I ended up writing Docker containers
"that swapped out every couple hours to solve it."
I mean, that's actually what a lot of people do.
They're like, you know what?
If it runs more than 12 hours, there's a problem.
So we just tell it to recycle itself.
And then Madison says, this is so cool.
I need memory profile line all the time
with some of the data I do work with regularly.
So people are digging it.
- Cool.
- Yeah, very cool.
So thank you, Roman.
I know you didn't send that in to us on purpose,
but you shared it with us anyway, thanks.
- Nice.
- Over to you, Brian.
- Okay, before I get onto the next topic,
I wanna point out that Henry Schreiner,
I'm gonna paraphrase him by saying,
Brian, you dork.
You didn't even read the article.
Yes, you're right, Henry, sorry.
So the new prefixes, I was showing the previous new ones
in '91 when they added Yocto and Zepto.
These are not the new ones.
The new ones are down here with Rana, Quetta,
Ronto and Quecto.
Yes, the reason why those sounded familiar
is because they've been around.
These new ones, they're the new ones.
Okay. So thanks Henry for clarifying that.
but onto the next topic is, Will McGugan says,
please steal my source code. so, he wrote an article,
Will McGugan wrote an article said stealing open source code from textual.
And he says,
I would like to talk about a serious issue with free and open source software,
steal the code, stealing code. You wouldn't steal a car, would you?
And then actually he has this funny video that he embeds about like how,
uh, like digital piracy really is like stealing. And it's a,
it's sort of a funny video. but the,
the comment is Israel that like you need to,
you can steal code from open source projects as long as you can.
So please read the MIT license or read the license to make sure that
you can. And in a lot of cases you can. So like,
I'm gonna give an example that I use a lot is,
I'll think of something that I wanna do,
like I'm interacting with a library,
and maybe I don't quite get how to do that
with the documentation,
I can search GitHub for projects
that use that library also, as an example.
And so that's a way to look at other source code
of how to interact with a project
that maybe doesn't have the greatest documentation,
you can see how it's done.
- I've honestly never thought to do that,
that's a great idea.
I'll go look at the tests and stuff.
I'm like, these tests suck.
There's not a single one that shows me like
this use case that I'm looking for.
This is brilliant.
- Some of the, yeah, I use do that a lot
with pytest plugins.
'Cause I look at how other plugins are testing their stuff
and I'm like, oh, how do they do it?
So the, but so the warning there is
he's not advocating for piracy.
Open source code gives you explicit permission to use it.
And if you're actually just copying the whole thing,
you probably should reference it and use the same license.
Or if you're copying large chunks,
but the MIT license, for example,
says it's substantial copying.
So a little bit of copying is fine.
And Will says, "Textual has some cool stuff in it
"that you might wanna look at."
So he's got a loop.
He points out some things you might wanna steal.
The loop first and last.
So he's got a loop iterator
that he's got a couple of versions of it
that will not only iterate through things,
but it'll give you,
it'll note which one's the first and the last.
So if you need to do something cool
on something different on the first and the last one,
do that.
He tweeted recently or tooted or whatever
about the LRU cache as well.
So the Python's got a built-in LRU cache,
but everything's global.
So you can only kind of clear,
There's limits on how you can interact with it.
So he has a more flexible LRU cache.
He's got a color class that looks pretty cool
that you can convert to different color representations.
That's pretty neat.
And then, you know, he's been working
on a ton of geometry stuff, 2D geometry.
So he's like, you might want to use this
for whatever 2D geometry you're using.
So here's there.
So kind of cool reminder that open source,
one of the benefits of open source
is you get to see the source and learn from people.
So I like it.
I love your idea.
- You've never done that.
I'm like, it might dance.
I just can't figure this out.
Oh, how are other people using it?
So yeah.
- I just get frustrated and go into a new library.
This one sucks.
I can't do this.
I'm gonna find another one.
- It's not good enough.
- Merlo, are you an open source thief?
Do you do this kind of stuff?
- I have to admit, yes.
Yes, I am.
Stack Overflow thief, open source thief.
Is this especially in the early, early days, right?
But I think with the rich stuff too,
it's very inviting for you to steal code
'cause even on the rich package, right?
Like if you do Python-m rich table or whatever,
you always show some really nice stuff
on the terminal, right?
And I was like, how does he do that?
And, or like, I think for every component,
he had a little demo that you can just run.
And it's very, it's very tempting.
Even if you didn't want people to steal stuff from him,
I feel like you have a hard time
just keeping the thieves away, you know?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
Yeah, very cool.
And funny too.
I like it.
Good job.
Good job, Will.
Where are we at now?
Off to Marlow's final item?
Yes.
This one I had not heard of either,
and it looks pretty interesting.
Yeah, I mean, it's one of the things that I saw.
I was like, yeah, this makes so much sense.
How come I didn't think of this before?
But this is Shed.
This is a podcast, right?
So maybe--
[LAUGHTER]
I think it's related to bike shedding, shed your legacy code.
So it's like a superset of black.
They call it black++ here.
So they say here, maximally opinionated auto-formatting
tool.
So it's all about convention over configuration,
which is also something that I can subscribe to.
They have no configuration options.
But basically, it's a bundling of a lot of tools.
So they have black here, but they also
have I sort and with the profile black so it doesn't clash.
They also have PyUpgrade,
which I think you guys mentioned a couple of times, right?
- Yeah, we did. - And Autoflake as well.
Autoflake I didn't know actually before,
but basically it removes unused imports
and unused variables from your Python code.
So it's kind of like, yeah, that's all I wanted.
I was like, you know, I wish I had this last week.
(laughs)
- There you go, yeah.
But yeah, it's a one-stop shop
and even do like a black in docs, right?
So if you have doc strings or markdown or everything,
you will take that, it will black format that for you.
So I was like, yeah, this is what I wanted.
- Okay, hold on, black in docs.
This is new to me too.
All right.
- Yeah, let's see.
- So this is black on Python blocks, sample code blocks.
- Yes, so if you have a restructured text, markdown,
even doc strings, it will format that for you.
- Oh, like you like blackening your readme for instance.
So yes, yes, yes.
Oh, OK.
Yeah, this is good.
Indeed.
So I have some stuff to talk about at the very end,
just a little bit about blogging and writing
and some platforms and stuff.
And that's all in Markdown.
Like I could run this against all of my code samples
on my blog to basically auto format all code in the blog.
That would be cool.
Yeah.
Yes, exciting.
Next time I write a book, I'm totally going to use that.
Yeah, or if you're doing a book. Yeah, I mean, absolutely.
So I literally just like, yesterday, the day before I was
cleaning up some code, I finally got, you know, I kind of I don't
do it clean the whole time I get it to work. And then I like, you
know, then I look at what I did stupid. And there's there might
be some imports laying around that I thought I needed. Because
you add an import, and then you take that code out, but you do
you sometimes forget to take the import out. So I ran black on
and everything, of course.
And then I run Flake 8 and I'm getting errors.
I'm like, "Shoot, why didn't Black just take those out?"
So now I've got Shed and it'll take those out for me.
- It does it all, right?
Like it's great.
'Cause maybe it's the same, right?
Like you run Flake 8, it's like,
"Ah, yeah, unused variable.
"Ah, okay, they have to go there one by one."
You know, it's like,
it feels like there should be a nicer way, right?
- Yeah, I mean, you have to pay attention to that
'cause your unused variable might be a typo or something.
You might think you're using it, but--
- That's true.
- Yeah, or it's like a global variable module
supposed to share with something else,
and it's a library, but in general,
I mean, you could probably put like a hash,
you know, QA or something on it.
- Well, I mean, yeah, and also you're testing,
so your test will catch it if you delete too much, so.
- Yeah.
All right, well, really, really good one.
Take your code out to the shed
and whip it into shape behind the shed.
- That's it.
- All right.
- All right, well, Brian, what else we got, extras?
- I got some extras, you got some extras.
Who should go first?
- You go first.
- Okay, well, the thing that I've been working on
is by test check and I finally got,
and I've been talking about this for like a month
'cause I've been slowly pulling this into shape.
It's almost a complete, not really a rewrite,
but I moved everything around
and the code's a lot easier to read
and so it makes me happier.
And so it makes me happier.
And I also changed the API.
So I wanted to mention to everybody
that you can either use,
so you can either use from pytest check,
import check to get this check object,
or you can stick the check object as a fixture.
And either way you get access to everything in the library.
That's the only thing you have to do.
And for people unfamiliar,
pytest check is a library that allows you
to have multiple failures per test.
I, you know, normally the recommendation is try to fail on one thing, but sometimes you
need lots of data.
And I just threw in a little example that uses both.
So if like it's using HTTPS to grab, grab the status code.
And as long as the status goes 200, then I can check a whole bunch of stuff.
I can check to make sure the redirect and encoding is right.
And check for some, some stuff inside the, I mean, you, you, these could be multiple
tests. But if it really is, you're checking multiple parts of things. And for scientific
work that I'm in measurement work that I do, I'm often checking like tons of aspects of
a waveform. And it's really just making sure the waveforms right and that rightness is
multiple checks. So use that. Anyway, I didn't intend to break anybody, but I did break Brian's
skin. So Brian came up at the beginning of the article. But he tagged me in a GitHub
issue on his project and I looked at it and I'm like, oh, I didn't intend to break that.
So I fixed it this morning. So hopefully if anybody gets broken by this, I was not intending
to break anybody. Just let me know and I'll try to fix it. So that looks great. How about
you? Merlo? I know you have some as well. It goes well. So I don't go too long. Maybe.
Yeah, I feel like I should have opened the, I didn't have the link up here, but talking
about breaking stuff, Flakate is not on GitLab anymore.
And I actually didn't have issues with that because with pre-commit, right, you have to
specify the repo.
I already was on GitHub, but I actually heard from people, some people that they heard a
lot of noise that Flakate is not on GitLab anymore.
And then there was also this video from Anthony that is maintaining, right, pre-commit and
Flakate.
was explaining a bit 'cause why was the motivation from going from GitLab to GitHub?
And yeah, like what's relatable is that like sometimes you break people's code, but it's
like it's not intention, right?
But sometimes people can get very heated over these things.
So yeah, just maybe public service announcement, you know, change your your Git repo to GitHub
now for using Flakegate as a pre-commit.
Yeah.
You also had mastodon.py, right?
Yes, yes, yes, that I did.
I just, sorry, I flipped the order
'cause I thought it was a segue there.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, I wish I knew about this
like a week ago or so.
That would have been awesome.
- Yeah, you covered a toot, I think, right?
- Yes, we covered toot, that's right.
- Yeah, yeah, so this is, to be very honest,
I wasn't the one that found this, it was my boss,
so shout out to Bart if you're listening right now.
But this is basically just a wrapper
around the Mastodon API, right?
So you don't have to do requests,
you can usually have like a nice client library there
to do all these things.
So if you wanna play around, create some bots,
you know, whatever, then yeah,
there's a nice convenient package now for you to do it.
- Wow, this is really cool.
And it has, you know what,
documentations that say what functions it has.
I love it.
(laughing)
- Documentation?
To treat the code.
- It doesn't have to be much,
like the seven or eight lines of code that are in the readme,
like gives you a really good boost,
but it lets you register your app,
which is one of the things if you go to the website,
it'll show you which apps are registered
for your access keys on Mastodon,
but it won't let you create one on the website.
So here's like a simple create app,
and just give it your instance name
and what file to save the access tokens over to,
and boom, you're good to go.
- Yeah, have you guys already done stuff with Mastodon?
- Yeah, you know, on the stream deck,
the thing that controls the stream,
I already wrote that thing where I push the one button,
it sends out the message automatically
that this live stream is starting,
And yeah, that uses a little bit of toot
and mostly just a straight API with HTTPX.
But if I'd known about this, I would have used it.
Now we know.
Yeah, no, thanks for sharing that.
Anything else you want to share before we move on?
Yes.
So there are a couple more things.
But this one, this is the Brazilian [INAUDIBLE]
that couldn't resist.
The World Cup started.
I don't know.
Are you guys soccer fans or not at all?
So we've a fun soccer team here.
I go see with the kids and stuff in town.
So I'm also in machine learning, so a lot of data.
And this time of the year, there's a lot of like, oh, yeah, the AI models are predicting
this, this, and this.
This one is one from Oxford.
So I just wanted to give a quick shout out here.
So they have a video on YouTube as well, which is cool.
They explain the math.
And I will go on a limp here and say they use Python, because they even mention Matplotlib
and whatnot.
But this is basically just a big excuse to say that they predict Brazil to win.
So if this doesn't happen, it's all rigged.
The math supports this.
So Brazil must win this World Cup.
And anything that is not there, I'm
going to be extremely disappointed.
This is really cool.
People are always looking for realistic examples
to learn and explore libraries and tools.
And if you're into soccer and you care about the World Cup,
this is great.
Yeah, I think if you-- yeah.
People are very creative.
I feel like there's a lot of uses for it.
- Well, I'm sure this will happen
'cause there's absolutely no corruption in soccer.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Yeah, not at all, not at all.
- Cool.
- Should I just keep going or you wanna take over?
- You got more items?
Yeah, keep going.
- I have--
- Take a step on the list.
- I have two more, sorry.
I know you said I could have more than two.
So I just went--
- You can have, that's what this whole section is about.
- One, so for me as a data scientist
or machine learning engineer,
we use a lot of notebooks, right?
and I think they have their place in data science,
but there are some tools that don't play
very nicely with it, right?
And I think in Git diffs or PRs,
they don't play so nicely, right?
So this is, I think it's public preview, I wanna say,
but I haven't actually seen this,
but now GitHub is gonna start supporting notebook diffs.
So if you have a pull request,
they're gonna have a nicer rendering of the notebook here,
and you can actually see what the differences are.
And I think before there was a tool called ReviewNB
that you could add to GitHub.
But yeah, now they're just gonna start supporting it.
So I haven't seen how it looks,
but I'm pretty excited about this too.
One less headache for me.
- Yeah, that's excellent.
'Cause before the diff would just be like,
here's the diff of the JSON file.
You're like, no, that's not what I was like.
- And also JSON is just JSON, like just key value.
So if you just change the order of some keys,
it's just like, yeah, you have a lot of changes,
but it's not, you don't care.
- Yeah, oh, this looks really useful.
- Yeah, and maybe one last, if that's okay.
- Yeah.
- Let me just pull this here.
This is Lancer.
So it's another CLI tool.
I talked about linting before, right?
So this is another kind of linting.
And I say kind of 'cause--
- What's a linting?
- So, you know--
- Some definition of linting or clean up, yeah.
- So this is like black, almost like black,
but it's the opposite.
So instead of making your code look nice,
it would just make it like a hideous, but working mess,
right?
So these are some of the features.
It turns all your comments to pitbull lyrics
or something safe for work, if you want.
It takes all your variable names
and mix into like animal sounds
and horribly similar looking characters.
So like bark underscore bark underscore 0 0 0 0.
It adds white spaces.
It adds completely irrelevant comments
and the code still runs after these improvements.
- I love it.
- You have here some comments and everything.
So before, like nicely formatted,
and then afterwards you see some comments like,
but I've been, but I boom, you know,
there's nothing like Miami heat,
some alpha characters in your variable name.
So pretty, pretty good stuff.
Again, I must say I haven't used this,
but this is a tool that I'm not as excited to use.
- I mean, there's always times that you need
to send out your code to different places
and you would rather share it less than more.
thinking of like if you make a desktop app and you got to send
out the code for that or whatever, and you would want to
obfuscate it, you want to make it harder for people to just
pick it up and like do so you could hit it with this. They'd
be like, yeah, no, no, we're just now we're just not doing
that.
So my favorite one is my favorite ones on the screen is
the adding obvious comments, like setting the value of some
Like, that wasn't in the original.
And it's just funny that I mean, that's actually not gibberish.
It's just useless.
Yeah, it's it's really good.
The comments out in the live stream are really great as well.
People are enjoying it.
One of them is it's great for Twitter employees.
You can maximize your lines of code for reviewers that's coming up.
then you just print it out and you take it, and sidebar.
Like if somebody says print out my code so we can review it,
they're not equipped to review the code
that you may have written.
If the word print involves in evaluating code, no.
All right, I don't think so.
So leave that where that is.
But you could put this on top of like, yeah,
I'm kind of funky when I write codes.
It's a little different.
Let's get used to-- yeah, I just-- it's a form.
It's a code form.
Oink, oink, oink.
You can have two sets of books, kind of.
You got your real repo, and then you use this
to put it into the actual one that you submit.
And you're like, I understand it.
I don't know what your problem is.
It works on my machine.
I kind of want to run this on a large code base.
Something really complicated.
Squash all the commits, force push.
Like textual.
- I'm gonna release it as textual oink oink or something.
(laughing)
- Yes, I love it.
- Cool.
- All right, well, this was a good find.
Awesome, thanks.
All right, I'll make mine quick here.
So a new YouTube video,
I talked about how you can install the Mastodon web app
on your iPad as a native app, as well as on your desktop.
So if you're doing that kind of stuff, not there.
Basically, they just released Mastodon 4
like a couple days ago,
and all the apps don't have features like edit
and some of the other features that are there
because they're like months behind.
And so if you install the web app as an app,
then guess what?
It looks like an app, it acts like an app,
but it has like zero latency.
So as soon as something is released on the website,
you get it, which is pretty cool.
So people can check that out.
I saw Madison in the audience,
sent over a call for proposals or calling all Pythonistas, if you will, for PyCascades. So
PyCascades is back in person this year in Vancouver, BC. It goes from Vancouver to Seattle
to Portland and cycles through that there. But so this year, it's going to be in Vancouver. So if
you want to go up there and talk, be part of the conference, good conference. So call for proposals
- Yeah, but they're not open for very much longer.
So jump on that.
I don't remember what the date is, but.
- It closes Wednesday 30th.
So what is that?
- Yeah, eight days.
- Yeah, next Wednesday.
Yeah, eight days.
And Madison, and if you're in the audience, thank you.
Is put in person this time,
we really value the first time speakers
in a typical talks.
So get out there and put yourself out there
and get into public speaking.
It's not a huge conference,
But it's big enough, a couple hundred people,
300, 400 people, fun time.
This is just really quick and fun.
If you're on a Mac, you're not as
likely to get viruses sent your way that we'd actually
be able to do something like 90% of viruses
are written for Windows.
But what's a really interesting fact, I just--
if you do have a Mac, it turns out 50% of all macOS malware
comes from one single app.
Can you believe that?
- What is it, Safari?
- No, it's MacKeeper.
So if you have MacKeeper, it organizes your files
and it'll clean up your junky cache and stuff.
But apparently it has to take over so much permissions
and it can get, I guess, plugged in,
or I don't know what it does,
but people can plug into this
and make it do all sorts of horrible stuff.
So 50% of all malware is written for MacKeeper.
So if you have MacKeeper, maybe unhave it.
- Unhave it.
(laughing)
- I recently, as of Sunday, launched a new website
that I hope will bring me back to writing some more.
We'll see about how that goes.
But here I'm trying a new philosophy on blogging, Brian.
I don't know how you feel about it, but I have a blog.
Been doing it for a long time,
but like I looked, the last article I wrote
I'm like, "Oh, that's not so good."
And the reason is I always try to write like 2,000 word posts that are really...
And I'm like, "But I could post to Twitter and mass it on all day."
And it's like, "I can just do that. That's no problem.
I don't like fall behind on Twitter."
I'm like, "Well, that's because these really should be super short posts."
So I have. I've got this new website that I wrote that are just super short,
fits on a page type of articles that people can go and check out.
and check out.
- Yeah, some people are promoting like,
today I learned things, but sure, why not?
I mean, if you think it's gonna be a thread,
write a blog post.
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so cool.
So all of these are written,
this is all based on Hugo, which is a,
just learned about it,
but a ridiculously cool static site generator.
Either of you played with Hugo?
- I use it, I love it.
So pythontest.com is written on Hugo.
- It's ridiculous, right?
No, Marlo, you haven't?
- Sorry, no, I haven't used it, but I heard of it.
Yeah, I heard nice things.
- Yeah, so you basically just go to your directory
of markdown files and images,
you just run hugo-dserver or whatever,
and then as you write, you have your web page
open in your browser,
and it automatically sees the markdown file changes
or the CSS changes, regenerates it,
and refreshes your browser.
So your browser could be just over there
and it's just periodically, as you make changes,
it instantly refreshes.
So you don't even go and refresh the page.
You just write and the browser just watches
and reloads, it's cool.
- Yeah, and I, so you got it so that you just,
you just push your changes to GitHub or your repo
and it just appears on your website.
- Exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
So that was my next thing is,
Then I set up a Netlify free account
with CDN SSL custom domain name,
push it just has a prod branch that I connected it to.
And when I pushed a prod boom, it just goes there instantly.
So anyway, people are looking at that, that is super cool.
- Pushed a prod?
Oh, that's kind of cool.
I just edit on prod, so.
- I just log in, edit over SSH.
- Yeah.
- Just edit on the server, the server is the backup.
Anyway, I have stuff on the screen,
but there are no more backups.
That's just stuff I pulled up while we were talking.
So no more extras, I mean.
So yeah, fun stuff.
People check out the blog website and the video
and apply for speaking at PyCascades.
- Nice.
Well, I feel like Lancer also was like already really funny,
but do you have anything else funny for us or?
- I do, although I somehow forgot
to pull them up on the screen.
So give me just a second here.
There's two, these are really good.
Okay, these are pretty epic.
So this one is called,
I think Merlo, you'll really like this one
'cause it has to do with like algorithms and data science.
And it's called Messing with the Algorithm.
And it shows this dude here,
don't mind the thing at the bottom,
I have no idea what that's about.
But see, there's this guy whose face is blurred out in
UK, I think, I can't remember where this was.
No, Berlin.
And he's got a wagon, like a little red wagon
that you pull behind you, full of 99 phones.
Now what he did is he got them all running Google Maps
and left them open and started walking down the street
real slow and notice his neighborhood is now red on the map
and he got it so it thinks there's a traffic jam
and it'll send cars around his neighborhood.
- Nice.
- I wanna get one of these so bad
and whenever I take my dog for a walk,
just walk with the wagon behind me too.
- No cars.
- Yeah.
So good, isn't it?
He's so ahead of our time.
He's just like, oh, he's so brilliant.
Yeah.
And I got for his neighbors.
The next one, the next one here is going to take a little bit of a, I just
got to, I got to set the stage.
Give me a second to set, set the history.
Have you heard of, you've heard about these motivational posters.
You go to like a dentist's office.
It'll be like an Eagle soaring over like a sunset.
Like if you don't spread your wings, you'll never soar as high as you
could or something cheesy like that.
Yeah.
Well, there's this company called yes, exactly.
There's a company called Despair.
And Despair creates these, but in reverse.
They're called the Demotivators.
- Yeah, nice.
- So have you seen these?
- No.
- Okay, so here's one like Solutions.
And what does it say?
It has a Rube Goldbergian type looking thing here.
And it says, "Solutions, this is what happens
"when the problem solver gets paid by the hour."
(laughing)
It's just out of control.
Here's one, what is this?
It's a frog wearing, with a snail on its head.
is collaborate, so the best of us have to carry the rest of us.
It's just like, they're really...
All right.
So that brings us to, I feel like this is a Brian Skin show a little bit.
This tweet that he shared here, and it has the latexify thing, but recursion.
And for the recursion, it has that demotivator.
It's a picture that said recursion, here we go again.
And then embedded in that is recursion, here we go again.
Like that, you know, like your screen share, you see your own screen.
Yeah.
So it's kind of like that poster, but for recursion.
I kind of feel bad that people, the people that don't get the recursion
joke, cause they can't even look it up because it just gets redirected.
It just keeps going.
Like the definition is the definition.
That's right.
Nice.
All right.
Well, that's what I got for you all.
Well, thanks everybody.
And thanks Michael, of course.
And thanks Merlo for coming on the show.
Thanks for having me.
It was great.
>> Yeah, you bet.
Bye, everyone.
>> Bye.
Bye